
Overview:

LinkedIn's Data Science team leverages big data to empower business decisions and deliver data-driven insights, metrics, and tools in order to drive member engagement, business growth, and monetization efforts. With over 1 billion members around the world, a focus on great user experience, and a mix of B2B and B2C programs, a career at LinkedIn offers countless ways for an ambitious data scientist to have an impact.

We are looking for a talented and driven technical leader to accelerate our efforts and be a major part of our data-centric culture. This person will work closely with various cross-functional teams such as product, marketing, sales, engineering, policy and operations to develop and deliver metrics, analyses, solutions, and insights, with actionable recommendations to business partners. Successful candidates will exhibit technical acumen, product sense and business savvy, with a passion for making an impact through creative storytelling and timely actions.

Location:

At LinkedIn, our approach to flexible work is centered on trust and optimized for culture, connection, clarity, and the evolving needs of our business. The work location of this role is hybrid, meaning it will be performed both from home and from a LinkedIn office on select days, as determined by the business needs of the team.

Responsibilities:

Partner with cross-functional teams to initiate, lead and drive to completion large-scale/complex strategic projects for teams, departments and the company.
Act as a thought partner to senior leaders to prioritize/scope projects, provide recommendations, and evangelize data-driven business decisions in support of strategic goals.
Provide technical guidance and mentorship to junior team members on solution design as well as lead code/design reviews.
Drive org-wide impact by shaping product and business strategy through data-centric presentations.
Work with a team of high-performing data science professionals, and cross-functional teams to identify business opportunities, optimize product performance or go to market strategy.
Analyze large-scale structured and unstructured data; develop deep-dive analyses and machine learning models to drive member value and customer success.
Design and develop core business metrics, create insightful automated dashboards and data visualization to track them and extract useful business and product insights.
Design and analyze experiments to test new product ideas or go to market strategies. Convert the results into actionable recommendations. Independently craft compelling stories; make logical recommendations; drive informed actions.
Engage with technology partners to build, prototype and validate scalable tools/applications end to end (backend, frontend, data) for converting data to insights.
Mentor junior members of the team.


Qualifications

Basic Qualifications:

Bachelor or higher degree in a quantitative discipline: statistics, operations research, computer science, informatics, engineering, applied mathematics, economics, etc.
5+ years of relevant work experience.
Experience influencing strategy through data-centric presentations .
Experience in SQL.
Background in at least one programming language (e.g., R, Python, Scala).
Experience in applied statistics and statistical modeling in at least one statistical software package.
Experience telling stories with data and visualization tools
Experience running platform experiments and techniques like A/B testing


Preferred Qualifications:

Experience with manipulating massive-scale structured and unstructured data.
Proven record writing and optimizing code with high levels of craftsmanship, and coaching others to improve technical outputs.
Working knowledge of Unix command-line/shell, git and review board.
Experience leveraging government data or publicly available third-party APIs.
Experience mentoring other data scientists in an official or unofficial capacity.
Excellent communication skills, with the ability to synthesize, simplify and explain complex problems to different types of audience, including executives and compile compelling narratives.


Suggested Skills:

SQL
Python
Statistical Analysis
Data Storytelling
Data Interpretation

